[DOCS] Adds conceptual documentation of regression and the related evaluation type (#479)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/df-analytics/dfa-regression.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[dfa-regression]]
== {regression-cap}

{reganalysis-cap} is a {ml} process for estimating the relationships among 

> different variables, then making further predictions based on these 

Reviewer: Can we talk about relationships between fields in the data, instead of variables?
```suggestion
different fields in your data, then making further predictions based on these 
```

relationships.

For example, suppose we are interested in finding the relationship between 
apartment size and monthly rent in a city. Our imaginary dataset consists of 
three data points:

|===
| Size (m2) | Monthly rent 
| 44        | 1600
| 24        | 1055
| 63        | 2300
|===

> After the model determines the relationship between the {feature-vars} 

Reviewer: Since we haven't mentioned feature variables yet at this point, I think we can omit it here too:
```suggestion
After the model determines the relationship between the
```

> (apartment size) and the {depvar} (rent), it can make predictions such as the 

Reviewer: Ditto, omitting variable references:
```suggestion
apartment size and the rent, it can make predictions such as the 
```

monthly rent of a hundred square meter-size apartment.

This is a simple example. Usually {regression} problems are multi-dimensional, 
so the relationships that {reganalysis} tries to find are between multiple 

> {feature-vars} and the {depvar}. To extend our example, a more complex 

Reviewer: Can we talk about fields instead of variables here too? For example:
```suggestion
fields. To extend our example, a more complex 
```

> {reganalysis} could take into account further {feature-vars} like the location 

Reviewer: I think we can move away from "variable" terminology here too. For example:
```suggestion
{reganalysis} could take into account additional factors such as the location 
```

of the apartment in the city, on which floor it is, and whether the apartment 
has a riverside view or not and so on.

[discrete]
[[dfa-regression-features]]
=== {feature-vars-cap}

> 

Reviewer: If users really need to understand the concept of feature variables and dependent variables, I think this is the place to do it. Maybe something like this:
```suggestion

When you perform {reganalysis}, you must identify a subset of fields that you want to use to create a model for predicting other fields. We refer to these fields as _feature variables_ and _dependent variables_, respectively.
```

=== {feature-vars-cap}

> {feature-vars-cap} are the values that the {con-targvar} value depends on 

Reviewer 2: I see we're using `dependent variable` and `continuous target variable` interchangeably. I think users not familiar with the terminology might get confused. I suggest we stick to `dependent variable` as that's what our API uses. In the description of `dependent variable` we can mention it is also known as `continuous target variable` for the more knowledgeable users.

(that's why it is also called as {depvar}). If one or more of the {feature-vars} 
changes that means that the {con-targvar} value also changes. There are three 
different types of {feature-vars} that you can ship to the {regression} 
algorithm:
* Numerical. In our example, the size of the apartment was a 
  numerical {feature-var}.
* Categorical. A variable that can have one value from a set of values. The 
  value set has a fixed and limited number of possible items. In the example, 
  the location of the apartment in the city (borough) is a categorical variable.
* Boolean. The riverside view in the example is a boolean value because an 
  apartment either has a riverside view or doesn't have one.

> 

Reviewer 2: This is probably the right section to also explain we don't support arrays.

[discrete]
[dfa-regression-supervised]
=== Training the {regression} algorithm

{regression-cap} is a supervised machine learning process, which means that you 
need to supply a labeled training dataset that has some {feature-vars} and a 
{depvar}. The {regression} algorithm learns the relationships between the 
features and the {depvar}. Once you've trained the model on your training 
dataset, you can reuse the knowledge that the model has learned about the 
relationships between the data points to make certain inferences about new data 
points.

The relationships between the {feature-vars} and the {depvar} is described as a 
mathematical formula. {reganalysis-cap} tries to find the best value for the 
{depvar} by combining various {ml} techniques, that means that in the {stack}, 
we use an ensemble learning model that uses multiple algorithms. The performance 
of an ensemble is usually better than the performance of an individual 
algorithm because each of the algorithms has a different bias, so each of them 

> falls into different traps. When they used together as a group, then they 

Reviewer 2: are we missing an "are" in "When they (are) used together..."?

capture the characteristics of the data better. The ensemble learning technique 
that we use in the {stack} is a type of boosting called extreme gradient boost 
(XGboost) which combines decision trees with gradient boosting methodologies.

 
[discrete]
[dfa-regression-evaluation]
=== Measuring model performance

You can measure how well the model has performed on your training dataset by 
using the `regression` evaluation type of the evaluate {dfanalytics} API. The 

> error value that the evaluation provides you on the training dataset is the 

Reviewer 2: Here we refer to the `error value` but the evaluation API does not return a single error. It instead returns the requested metrics. I wonder if there's a better way to phrase this here.

the _training error_. Training the {regression} model means finding the 
combination of model parameters that produces the lowest possible training 
error.

Another crucial measurement is how well your model performs on unseen 
data points. To assess how well the trained model will perform on data it has 
never seen before, you must set aside a proportion of the training dataset for 
testing. This split of the dataset is the testing dataset. Once the model has 

> been trained and found out the required coefficients, you can let the model 

Reviewer 3: this is superfluous: it is implied by saying the model is trained:
```suggestion
been trained, you can let the model 
```

predict the value of the data points it has never seen before and compare the 
prediction to the actual value. This test provides an estimate of a quantity 
known as the _model generalization error_.

Two concepts describe how well the {regression} algorithm was able to learn the 
relationship between the {feature-vars} and the {depvar}. _Underfitting_ is when 
the model cannot capture the complexity of the dataset. _Overfitting_ is when 
the model has trained so specifically to a dataset that it is capturing all the 

> details and cannot generalize well enough. A model that overfits the data has a 

Reviewer 3: I'd rephrase this slightly. The details could be things which do generalise. The quantities which don't generalise are things which are unique to the training data and usually called noise. How about:

_Overfitting_ is when the model is too specific to the training data set and is capturing details which do not generalize to new data.

[role="xpack"]
[[dfa-regression]]
== {regression-cap}

{reganalysis-cap} is a {ml} process for estimating the relationships among 

> a number of {feature-vars} and a {depvar}, then making further predictions based 

Reviewer: I think we need to introduce the concept of feature variables and dependent variables before we use them to define regression.

Author: I rephrased the first sentence to be more general because we introduce these concepts in the Feature variables section. The aim of this introductory section is to provide a basic understanding of the analysis, so I think the deeper terminology could be explained later.

> on the described relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on these relationships.
```

For example, suppose we are interested in finding the relationship between 

> apartment size and monthly rent in a city. In this example, the rent is the 

Reviewer: It seems to me that you can omit everything between "rent in a city." and "Our imaginary dataset...".

{depvar} while the apartment size is the {feature-var} and we try to find out 
the relationship between them in order to make further predictions. Our 
imaginary dataset consists of three data points:

|===
| Size (m2) | Monthly rent 
| 44        | 1600
| 24        | 1055
| 63        | 2300
|===

> After the model described the relationship between the {feature-vars} and the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the model determines the relationship between the {feature-vars} (apartment size) and the 
```

> {depvar}, it can predict the monthly rent of a hundred square meter-size 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{depvar} (rent), it can predict the monthly rent of a hundred square meter-size 
```

apartment.

> This is a simple example, usually {regression} problems are multi-dimensional, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a simple example. Usually {regression} problems are multi-dimensional, 
```

so the relationships that {reganalysis} tries to find are between multiple 
{feature-vars} and the {depvar}. To extend our example, a more complex 
{reganalysis} could take into account further {feature-vars} like the location 
of the apartment in the city, on which floor it is, and whether the apartment 
has a riverside view or not and so on.

[discrete]
[[dfa-regression-features]]
=== {feature-vars-cap}

{feature-vars-cap} are the values that the {depvar} value depends on. If one or 
more of the {feature-vars} changes, the {depvar} value also changes. There are 

> three different types of {feature-vars} that you can ship to the {regression} 

Reviewer: "ship to" seems strange here.  Here's an alternative suggestion:
```suggestion
three different types of {feature-vars} that you can use with our {regression} 
```

> algorithm:

Reviewer: Bulleted lists need to be preceded by a blank line to work properly.
```suggestion
algorithm:

```

* Numerical. In our example, the size of the apartment was a 
  numerical {feature-var}.
* Categorical. A variable that can have one value from a set of values. The 
  value set has a fixed and limited number of possible items. In the example, 
  the location of the apartment in the city (borough) is a categorical variable.
* Boolean. The riverside view in the example is a boolean value because an 
  apartment either has a riverside view or doesn't have one.
Arrays are not supported.

[discrete]
[[dfa-regression-supervised]]
=== Training the {regression} algorithm

{regression-cap} is a supervised machine learning process, which means that you 

> need to supply a labeled training dataset that has some {feature-vars} and a 

Reviewer: In my opinion, at some point we'll need more information about how they generate a labelled training dataset, since so far I haven't seen that covered.

Author: I agree. I'll ask around and come up with a solution.

features and the {depvar}. Once you've trained the model on your training 
dataset, you can reuse the knowledge that the model has learned about the 
relationships between the data points to make certain inferences about new data 
points.

The relationships between the {feature-vars} and the {depvar} is described as a 
mathematical formula. {reganalysis-cap} tries to find the best value for the 
{depvar} by combining various {ml} techniques, that means that in the {stack}, 
we use an ensemble learning model that uses multiple algorithms. The performance 
of an ensemble is usually better than the performance of an individual 
algorithm because each of the algorithms has a different bias, so each of them 
falls into different traps. When they are used together as a group, then they 
capture the characteristics of the data better. The ensemble learning technique 
that we use in the {stack} is a type of boosting called extreme gradient boost 
(XGboost) which combines decision trees with gradient boosting methodologies.

 
[discrete]
[[dfa-regression-evaluation]]
=== Measuring model performance

You can measure how well the model has performed on your training dataset by 

> using the `regression` evaluation type of the evaluate {dfanalytics} API. The 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the `regression` evaluation type of the {ref}/evaluate-dfanalytics.html[evaluate {dfanalytics} API]. The 
```

> mean squared error value that the evaluation may provide you on the training 

Reviewer: > may provide you
This seems to imply that you won't always get this value. Is that intentional? If so, I think we should consider clarifying when you'd get it.

Author: I corrected it.

> mean squared error value that the evaluation may provide you on the training 

Reviewer: Since this is the first time we're using this term, the acronym should be defined here:
```suggestion
mean squared error (MSE) value that the evaluation may provide you on the training 
```

> dataset is the *training error*. Training the {regression} model means finding 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dataset is the _training error_. Training the {regression} model means finding 
```

> the combination of model parameters that produces the lowest possible training 

Reviewer: From just reading this overview, it's not clear where we define these "model parameters".

error.

> The training error does not tell much about how the model will perform on unseen 

Reviewer: This opening sentence threw me off a bit. Here's an possible alternative:
```suggestion
Another crucial measurement is how well your model performs on unseen 
```

> data points, however, this is a crucial factor that you want to know. To assess 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data points. To assess 
```

> how well the trained model will perform on data it has never seen before, a 

Reviewer: I think if this is something the user has to do, we should be explicit about it:
```suggestion
how well the trained model will perform on data it has never seen before, you must set aside a 
```

> proportion of the training dataset needs to be set out for testing. This split 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proportion of the training dataset for testing. This split 
```

of the dataset is the testing dataset. Once the model has been trained and found 
out the required coefficients, you can let the model predict the value of the 
data points it has never seen before and compare the prediction to the actual 

> value. This test provides an estimate of a quantity known as the *model 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value. This test provides an estimate of a quantity known as the _model 
```

> generalization error*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generalization error_.
```

Two concepts describe how well the {regression} algorithm was able to learn the 

> relationship between the {feature-vars} and the {depvar}. Underfitting is when 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
relationship between the {feature-vars} and the {depvar}. _Underfitting_ is when 
```

> the model cannot capture the complexity of the dataset. Overfitting is when the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the model cannot capture the complexity of the dataset. _Overfitting_ is when the 
```

> model has trained through a dataset so sharply that it is capturing all the 

Reviewer: Does a model train "through" or "to" or "been trained for"?
```suggestion
model has trained so specifically to a dataset that it is capturing all the 
```

details and cannot generalize well enough. A model that overfits the data has a 

> low mean squared error (MSE) value on the training dataset, but a high MSE value 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
low MSE value on the training dataset, but a high MSE value 
```

[role="xpack"]
[[dfa-regression]]
== {regression-cap}

{reganalysis-cap} is a {ml} process for estimating the relationships among 
different fields in your data, then making further predictions based on these 
relationships.

For example, suppose we are interested in finding the relationship between 
apartment size and monthly rent in a city. Our imaginary dataset consists of 
three data points:

|===
| Size (m2) | Monthly rent 
| 44        | 1600
| 24        | 1055
| 63        | 2300
|===

After the model determines the relationship between the

> (apartment size) and the {depvar} (rent), it can make predictions such as the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apartment size and the rent, it can make predictions such as the 
```

monthly rent of a hundred square meter-size apartment.

This is a simple example. Usually {regression} problems are multi-dimensional, 
so the relationships that {reganalysis} tries to find are between multiple 
fields. To extend our example, a more complex 

> {reganalysis} could take into account further {feature-vars} like the location 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{reganalysis} could take into account additional factors such as the location 
```

fields as _feature variables_ and _dependent variables_, respectively.
{feature-vars-cap} are the values that the {depvar} value depends on. If one or 
more of the {feature-vars} changes, the {depvar} value also changes. There are 
three different types of {feature-vars} that you can use with our {regression} 
algorithm:

* Numerical. In our example, the size of the apartment was a 
  numerical {feature-var}.
* Categorical. A variable that can have one value from a set of values. The 
  value set has a fixed and limited number of possible items. In the example, 
  the location of the apartment in the city (borough) is a categorical variable.
* Boolean. The riverside view in the example is a boolean value because an 
  apartment either has a riverside view or doesn't have one.
Arrays are not supported.

[discrete]
[[dfa-regression-supervised]]
=== Training the {regression} algorithm

{regression-cap} is a supervised machine learning process, which means that you 
need to supply a labeled training dataset that has some {feature-vars} and a 
{depvar}. The {regression} algorithm learns the relationships between the 

> features and the {depvar}. Once you've trained the model on your training 

Reviewer: I think this need to either be chanced to "feature and dependent variables", "feature and dependent variable" or "feature variable and dependent variables":
```suggestion
feature and the {depvar}. Once you've trained the model on your training 
```

dataset, you can reuse the knowledge that the model has learned about the 
relationships between the data points to make certain inferences about new data 
points.

> The relationships between the {feature-vars} and the {depvar} is described as a 

Reviewer 2: We have `relationships` (plural) and `is` (singular). Should those match?

> The relationships between the {feature-vars} and the {depvar} is described as a 

Author: ```suggestion
The relationships between the {feature-vars} and the {depvar} are described as a 
```

mathematical function. {reganalysis-cap} tries to find the best prediction for 

> the {depvar} by combining the predictions from multiple base learners. The 

Author: ```suggestion
the {depvar} by combining the predictions from multiple base learners – algorithms that generalize from the dataset. The 
```

> the {depvar} by combining the predictions from multiple base learners. The 

Reviewer: This term is not defined. Can we add a quick definition or link?
> multiple base learners
